docs/watch.md, before:

---
prev:
  text: 'Learn Kyanos in 5 Minutes'
  link: './how-to'
next:
  text: 'Stat Usage'
  link: './stat'
---

# Capturing Request-Response and Latency Details

Using the `watch` command, you can collect specific network traffic and parse them into request-response pairs, allowing you to:

- View detailed request-response content.
- Observe latency details, including key timestamps for when a request reaches the network interface, when a response reaches the network interface, when it arrives at the Socket buffer, and when the application process reads the response.

Let's start with a basic example:

```bash
kyanos watch
```

Since no filter is specified, `kyanos` will attempt to capture all traffic it can analyze. Currently, `kyanos` supports parsing three application-layer protocols: `HTTP`, `Redis`, and `MySQL`.

When you execute this command, you’ll see a table like this:
![kyanos watch result](/watch-result.jpg)

Each column represents:

| Column Name       | Description                                                                                                 | Example                               |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| id                | Table's Sequence number                                                                                             |                                       |
| Connection        | The connection for this request-response                                                                    | "10.0.4.9:44526 => 169.254.0.4:80"   |
| Proto             | Protocol used for the request-response                                                                      | "HTTP"                                |
| TotalTime         | Total time for this request-response, in milliseconds                                                       |                                       |
| ReqSize           | Request size, in bytes                                                                                      |                                       |
| RespSize          | Response size, in bytes                                                                                     |                                       |
| Net/Internal      | If send request as a client, it shows network latency; if received as a server, it shows internal processing time |                                       |
| ReadSocketTime    | For client, time spent reading the response from the Socket buffer; for server , reading requests time from the buffer |                                       |

You can sort by column using the number keys and navigate through records using the `"↑"`/`"↓"` or `"k"`/`"j"` keys. Pressing `Enter` opens the details view for a specific request-response:

![kyanos watch result detail](/watch-result-detail.jpg)

In the details view, the first section shows **latency details** with each block representing a step in the data packet's journey—such as the process, network card, and Socket buffer.   
Each block displays the time taken between these points, allowing you to trace the flow from when a request is sent by the process to when a response is received, with step-by-step latency.

The second section contains the **request and response content**, split into Request and Response parts. Content exceeding 1024 bytes is truncated, but you can adjust this limit using the `--max-print-bytes` option.


## How to Filter Requests and Responses ? {#how-to-filter}

By default, `kyanos` captures all traffic for the protocols it currently supports. However, in many scenarios, you might need to filter more precisely. For example, you may want to focus on requests sent to a specific remote port, or related to a certain process or container, or queries tied to specific Redis commands or HTTP paths.   
Below are the ways to use `kyanos` options to filter request-responses you're interested in.

### Filtering by IP and Port

`kyanos` supports filtering based on IP and port at the network layer (Layer 3/4). You can specify the following options:

| Filter Condition        | Command Line Flag          | Example                                                                  |
|-------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Local Connection Ports   | `local-ports`             | `--local-ports 6379,16379` <br> Only observe request-responses on local ports 6379 and 16379. |
| Remote Connection Ports  | `remote-ports`            | `--remote-ports 6379,16379` <br> Only observe request-responses on remote ports 6379 and 16379. |
| Remote IP Addresses      | `remote-ips`              | `--remote-ips 10.0.4.5,10.0.4.2` <br> Only observe request-responses from remote IPs 10.0.4.5 and 10.0.4.2. |
| Client/Server side    | `side`              | `--side client/server` <br> Only observe requests and responses when acting as a client initiating connections or as a server receiving connections. |

### Filtering by Process/Container {#filter-by-container}

| Filter Condition          | Command Line Flag         | Example                                                                  |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Process PID List          | `pids`                    | `--pids 12345,12346` <br> Separate multiple PIDs with commas.          |
| Container ID              | `container-id`            | `--container-id xx` <br> Specify the container ID.                     |
| Container Name            | `container-name`          | `--container-name foobar` <br> Specify the container name.             |
| Kubernetes Pod Name       | `pod-name`                | `--pod-name nginx-7bds23212-23s1s.default` <br> Format: NAME.NAMESPACE |

It's worth mentioning that `kyanos` also displays latency between the container network card and the host network card:
![kyanos time detail](/timedetail.jpg)

### Filtering by Request-Response General Information

| Filter Condition         | Command Line Flag         | Example                                                                  |
|--------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Request-Response Latency  | `latency`                | `--latency 100` <br> Only observe request-responses that exceed 100ms in latency. |
| Request Size in Bytes     | `req-size`               | `--req-size 1024` <br> Only observe request-responses larger than 1024 bytes. |
| Response Size in Bytes    | `resp-size`              | `--resp-size 1024` <br> Only observe request-responses larger than 1024 bytes. |

### Filtering by Protocol-Specific Information

You can choose to capture only request-responses for a specific protocol by adding the protocol name as subcommand. The currently supported protocols are:

- `http`
- `redis`
- `mysql`

For example, to capture only HTTP requests to the path `/foo/bar`, you would run: 
```bash
kyanos watch http --path /foo/bar
```

Here are the options available for filtering by each protocol:

#### HTTP Protocol Filtering

| Filter Condition | Command Line Flag | Example                                                |
|------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Request Path     | `path`            | `--path /foo/bar` <br> Only observe requests with the path `/foo/bar`. |
| Request Host     | `host`            | `--host www.baidu.com` <br> Only observe requests with the host `www.baidu.com`. |
| Request Method    | `method`          | `--method GET` <br> Only observe requests with the method `GET`. |

#### Redis Protocol Filtering

| Filter Condition | Command Line Flag | Example                                                 |
|------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Request Command   | `command`         | `--command GET,SET` <br> Only observe requests with the commands `GET` and `SET`. |
| Request Key      | `keys`            | `--keys foo,bar` <br> Only observe requests with the keys `foo` and `bar`. |
| Request Key Prefix | `key-prefix`     | `--key-prefix foo:bar` <br> Only observe requests with keys that have the prefix `foo:bar`. |

#### MySQL Protocol Filtering

> MySQL protocol capturing is supported, but filtering by conditions is still in development...

---

> [!TIP]
> All of the above options can be combined. For example:
```bash
./kyanos watch redis --keys foo,bar --remote-ports 6379 --pid 12345
``` 

This flexibility allows you to tailor your traffic capture to your specific needs, ensuring you gather only the most relevant request-response data.

Commit message:

docs: add `max-records` option doc

docs/watch.md, after:

---
prev:
  text: 'Learn Kyanos in 5 Minutes'
  link: './how-to'
next:
  text: 'Stat Usage'
  link: './stat'
---

# Capturing Request-Response and Latency Details

Using the `watch` command, you can collect specific network traffic and parse them into request-response pairs, allowing you to:

- View detailed request-response content.
- Observe latency details, including key timestamps for when a request reaches the network interface, when a response reaches the network interface, when it arrives at the Socket buffer, and when the application process reads the response.

Let's start with a basic example:

```bash
kyanos watch
```

Since no filter is specified, `kyanos` will attempt to capture all traffic it can analyze. Currently, `kyanos` supports parsing three application-layer protocols: `HTTP`, `Redis`, and `MySQL`.

When you execute this command, you’ll see a table like this:
![kyanos watch result](/watch-result.jpg)

> [!TIP]
> By default, watch collects 100 request-response records. You can specify this using the `--max-records` option.

Each column represents:

| Column Name       | Description                                                                                                 | Example                               |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| id                | Table's Sequence number                                                                                             |                                       |
| Connection        | The connection for this request-response                                                                    | "10.0.4.9:44526 => 169.254.0.4:80"   |
| Proto             | Protocol used for the request-response                                                                      | "HTTP"                                |
| TotalTime         | Total time for this request-response, in milliseconds                                                       |                                       |
| ReqSize           | Request size, in bytes                                                                                      |                                       |
| RespSize          | Response size, in bytes                                                                                     |                                       |
| Net/Internal      | If send request as a client, it shows network latency; if received as a server, it shows internal processing time |                                       |
| ReadSocketTime    | For client, time spent reading the response from the Socket buffer; for server , reading requests time from the buffer |                                       |

You can sort by column using the number keys and navigate through records using the `"↑"`/`"↓"` or `"k"`/`"j"` keys. Pressing `Enter` opens the details view for a specific request-response:

![kyanos watch result detail](/watch-result-detail.jpg)

In the details view, the first section shows **latency details** with each block representing a step in the data packet's journey—such as the process, network card, and Socket buffer.   
Each block displays the time taken between these points, allowing you to trace the flow from when a request is sent by the process to when a response is received, with step-by-step latency.

The second section contains the **request and response content**, split into Request and Response parts. Content exceeding 1024 bytes is truncated, but you can adjust this limit using the `--max-print-bytes` option.


## How to Filter Requests and Responses ? {#how-to-filter}

By default, `kyanos` captures all traffic for the protocols it currently supports. However, in many scenarios, you might need to filter more precisely. For example, you may want to focus on requests sent to a specific remote port, or related to a certain process or container, or queries tied to specific Redis commands or HTTP paths.   
Below are the ways to use `kyanos` options to filter request-responses you're interested in.

### Filtering by IP and Port

`kyanos` supports filtering based on IP and port at the network layer (Layer 3/4). You can specify the following options:

| Filter Condition        | Command Line Flag          | Example                                                                  |
|-------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Local Connection Ports   | `local-ports`             | `--local-ports 6379,16379` <br> Only observe request-responses on local ports 6379 and 16379. |
| Remote Connection Ports  | `remote-ports`            | `--remote-ports 6379,16379` <br> Only observe request-responses on remote ports 6379 and 16379. |
| Remote IP Addresses      | `remote-ips`              | `--remote-ips 10.0.4.5,10.0.4.2` <br> Only observe request-responses from remote IPs 10.0.4.5 and 10.0.4.2. |
| Client/Server side    | `side`              | `--side client/server` <br> Only observe requests and responses when acting as a client initiating connections or as a server receiving connections. |

### Filtering by Process/Container {#filter-by-container}

| Filter Condition          | Command Line Flag         | Example                                                                  |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Process PID List          | `pids`                    | `--pids 12345,12346` <br> Separate multiple PIDs with commas.          |
| Container ID              | `container-id`            | `--container-id xx` <br> Specify the container ID.                     |
| Container Name            | `container-name`          | `--container-name foobar` <br> Specify the container name.             |
| Kubernetes Pod Name       | `pod-name`                | `--pod-name nginx-7bds23212-23s1s.default` <br> Format: NAME.NAMESPACE |

It's worth mentioning that `kyanos` also displays latency between the container network card and the host network card:
![kyanos time detail](/timedetail.jpg)

### Filtering by Request-Response General Information

| Filter Condition         | Command Line Flag         | Example                                                                  |
|--------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Request-Response Latency  | `latency`                | `--latency 100` <br> Only observe request-responses that exceed 100ms in latency. |
| Request Size in Bytes     | `req-size`               | `--req-size 1024` <br> Only observe request-responses larger than 1024 bytes. |
| Response Size in Bytes    | `resp-size`              | `--resp-size 1024` <br> Only observe request-responses larger than 1024 bytes. |

### Filtering by Protocol-Specific Information

You can choose to capture only request-responses for a specific protocol by adding the protocol name as subcommand. The currently supported protocols are:

- `http`
- `redis`
- `mysql`

For example, to capture only HTTP requests to the path `/foo/bar`, you would run: 
```bash
kyanos watch http --path /foo/bar
```

Here are the options available for filtering by each protocol:

#### HTTP Protocol Filtering

| Filter Condition | Command Line Flag | Example                                                |
|------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Request Path     | `path`            | `--path /foo/bar` <br> Only observe requests with the path `/foo/bar`. |
| Request Host     | `host`            | `--host www.baidu.com` <br> Only observe requests with the host `www.baidu.com`. |
| Request Method    | `method`          | `--method GET` <br> Only observe requests with the method `GET`. |

#### Redis Protocol Filtering

| Filter Condition | Command Line Flag | Example                                                 |
|------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Request Command   | `command`         | `--command GET,SET` <br> Only observe requests with the commands `GET` and `SET`. |
| Request Key      | `keys`            | `--keys foo,bar` <br> Only observe requests with the keys `foo` and `bar`. |
| Request Key Prefix | `key-prefix`     | `--key-prefix foo:bar` <br> Only observe requests with keys that have the prefix `foo:bar`. |

#### MySQL Protocol Filtering

> MySQL protocol capturing is supported, but filtering by conditions is still in development...

---

> [!TIP]
> All of the above options can be combined. For example:
```bash
./kyanos watch redis --keys foo,bar --remote-ports 6379 --pid 12345
``` 

This flexibility allows you to tailor your traffic capture to your specific needs, ensuring you gather only the most relevant request-response data.
